---
layout: poem-post
title: On a Red Winding Road
excerpt: ""
modified: 2015-01-25
category: poems
tags: [poem]
---

It was a long shadow  
Stretched lengthwise  
Burning dry  
Red now black  
The bright red winding road  
4 men walked.  
  
One of beauty  
Other of desire  
Another of comedy  
Yet another of insanity  
On the bright red winding road  
4 men walked.  
  
Man from south  
Desire rules him all  
His focus the flap  
Of hummingbird's wings  
On parts define  
The gender opposite  
On the bright red winding road  
4 men walked.  
  
Fairest of them all  
On mirrors of ice  
He always asked  
Always you said his mind;  
A puddle of depth  
His heart that yearned;  
For all he needed   
The fairest of them all;  
On the bright red winding road  
4 men walked.  

For wit comes natural  
A voice sarcastic and funny;  
The tragic hero  
Of shyness and wit;  
Can't come out  
Meet the bright lights  
Man for a tragedy fit;  
On the bright red winding road  
4 men walked.  

The last from the north  
Born of hope and desire;  
Of loneliness and pain  
Strives very hard to gain  
Money and fame;  
Sanity a question   
Insanity a solution  
For problems to tame;  
On the bright red winding road  
4 men walked.  

First to fall  
As dead a stone  
The man of desire  
For he nothing knew  
But desire  
But need  
Nothing he found  
Was love  
Was passion  
Was not desire  
Was not need  
On the bright red winding road  
3 men walked.  

The elders of the 3  
Walked and watched  
The man of beauty  
Growing old and gaunt   
A shadow of his fairest life  
Falling often, until shatter  
His mirrors of solid ice  
Beauty was second to fall  
On the bright red winding road  
2 men walked.  
  
They walked hand in hand  
Insanity and Sarcasm  
A dream world they lived  
Of color and joy  
At the end of road  
Sat them arm on shoulder  
Looking at the dying sun  
Beginning of the walk  
A faded memory  
The future a sheer cliff  
They sat and dreamed  
For one last time  
On the bright red winding road.  
