---
layout: post
title: Welcoming 2015
modified: 2015-12-31
categories: {{ dir }}
excerpt: 2014 was excellent. I managed a lot. This is my hope for 2015.
tags: [intro]
---

> The flatcar sometimes crept, sometimes went extremely fast, often stopped - went uphill, downhill, around curves, along straightaways. [Slaughterhouse Five, Kurt Vonnegut]

In 2014, I was on the flatcar which went extremely fast and did all of that as well. It went uphill, downhill, around curves and it went without braking. Once again, we are at the end of the year when everyone starts making the lists. The lists of what to do for the next year; what to achieve. Over the years, I have started each year with a list in my brain. This list is always fresh when I start the year on my birthday which coincidentally is on the 1st of January. As time progresses, the list starts to mutate, transform in my brain barely looking the same as it started earlier during the year. That said, 2014 was different in certain ways. I managed to experiment a lot and find myself far more thoroughly with the help of friends, actions and many other things over the year. 

#### 2014 - The Year of the Horse
2014 has been that year. I managed to get super, extremely fit and then rebounded back to eating and removed my fitness. I managed to get my issues with certain things sorted out. I managed to focus my efforts and get a far more complete picture of what I wanted to do with time that keeps ticking. I have managed to see what I need to do in 2015 and how I need to do it. I managed to start many learning processes that I was pushing away from me. I managed to get on the radio and do a radio show with friends. I managed to take on an important at an organization and start something. I managed to get myself off of my arse and get things started. 

#### 2015 - The Year of the Sheep
For me, 2015 is going to be that year. That year, I am going to stop thinking, looking ahead and planning. Instead, I am gearing myself up to start doing. To do stuff. To get things done and then look back at the year critically. That is my aim. That starts with this blog. 42 posts in my blog using Wordpress. That is the first target, I hope to write more and write better. I hope to 'hack' more and learn from those. I hope to make more 'habits' and continue them. I hope to write critically and critically analyze things better than I have done. I hope to read more and read better things. I hope to continue my radio-show. I hope to get fitter and stronger. I hope to become a better cook. I hope to travel a bit more. I hope to have 2015 as one of the best years. 

All of this is my welcoming address to the new year. This blog will hopefully chronicle all of that. I hope to give glimpses of what I am up to here. Hope to see you sticking around and reading this. Happy New Year!


