---
layout: post
title: 8 Men in an Island
excerpt: "A trip from Copenhagen to Bornholm on bikes, with tents and no idea
what to expect"
modified: 2015-03-22
tags: [travelogue]
image:
  feature: 
  credit: 
  creditlink: 
---

{% include _toc.html %}

This is a series of posts from my old blog on the trip we took last summer in July, 2014. 8 of us, took our bikes, tents and good spirits to the island of Bornholm. It was 3 days more or less in the island. Where we just biked from one end to the other and had some fun. These are the series of posts from the old blog that I've stitched together here again. Hope you find it an interesting series. Just like the previous post, I'll definitely update this post with pictures when time frees up for me. Enjoy the long read, if you decide to read it that is. There are definitely grammatical errors and other issues with the piece here which I'll try to clean up as time clears up for me. 

<hr>

##Part 1 - Before the Storm Broke

We are the modern day hunters. We love having a good time and laying there like a parched lizard on a rock bathing the sun. Lizards we are not. Humans we truly are. So, when the bunch of us decided that Bornholm was a great summer hideout,  we jumped with joy and happiness. It is truly a good time when 8 men decide to put aside their schedules of doing nothing and get their mind and body behind a 4 day trip to an island. Si! This is the story of our bike trip. A trip to an island quite far away called Bornholm; a Danish dominion that sounded like the perfect escape for a summer vacation.

The story starts of as usual as my other bike trip story. You can easily fill it with these details of lazy preparation and suddenly, we are off like the Apollo 11 to discover amazing new places. Unfortunately, this is not such a story. Looking back, it is much better. Our decision before anybody had jumped in it, was deciding a route and the comforts we shall be enjoying all together. The major constraint being that we wanted it done with as little money as possible. This led us to two major requirements for the trip: a place to stay and some edible stuff to eat. These two were definitely the major necessity for any person let alone 8 growing young men with voracious appetites and a known history for laziness. The trip was planned accordingly to take us to the only port city of Bornholm - Rønne - through two options: Køge or Ystad. The difference being the cost of the ferry was considerably higher (about 30 Danish Kroners) for one than the other. Consequence of either being the total trip time. Ferry from Køge was cheaper but slower by 2 hours while you are comparing it with the ferry from Ystad. 

Once we were at the island, the trip was simple enough. We would take the major routes through supermarkets each day. These routes would help us stock up on the food for the usual late lunch ending each day at a primitive camp-site where we would laze around for the night and then get on the road to the next location.

What we did after all this planning and preparation was to present these to our friends who would accompany me and a friend of mine. At an usual weekly pizza night, we gathered around eating freshly made pizza looking at a Prezi presentation made by my planning buddy who was quite adamant on using it. The people weighed in with their schedule and the ability. Dates were quickly chosen over the next two days. And we arrived at the 4 day window when we were to make the trip. Conclusion that we arrived at was, we would take the midnight ferry from Køge to Rønne to save some money and get us fresh for the next day. But, and this is a huge but, we did not book the tickets.

The Monday morning came and every one of us were excited. It was a huge trip and rightly so, we were ready for an adventure. To infinity and beyond!! Then, it almost turned into a train wreck. You should remember that two sentences back, I said we had not booked the tickets. We had no tickets from Køge to Rønne as we had planned. Instead we had the choice of getting to Rønne through Ystad. But we had to run and get the tickets as soon as possible. Me and Mattia, the dude who planned it with me, ran or more or less biked on steel-horses to Buddinge Station to get our tickets. When we were done, everything was ready to get us on our way. Finally, after a week and a half of planning, we were getting to Bornholm on our steel-horses. Ferry was at 20:20; the train from Copenhagen H to Ystad, which was included in the ticket, left at 18:15 from the central station. Everybody was alerted to this fact and we decided that we should beat the clock by leaving at 17:30.  When I finished packing and had my last fill of a decently cooked dinner and a hot shower, I got out and met my mates for the start of the journey.

We biked to Copenhagen H, trying hard to find the elusive platform 23 if I remember correctly and the train of course. It was the start of an insanely fun trip. Compared to Sweden trip, this one is extremely fresh in my mind and I remember almost all of the things we did. Thus, began the journey to find inner peace.

<hr>

##Part 2 - First half of Day One

Have you ever had the feeling that sun is becoming a huge problem in the morning? You know, the sun shining right at your face when you are sleeping and causing you to wake up instead of snuggling tighter into your comfortable bed? If you haven't, I must say that you have really good curtains. It was the same case inside the tent. When the sun rises quite early, it gets a wee bit warm inside the tents and the sleeping bag. Not to say, it also adds this horrible brightness factor. Like in the sets of a movie with one too many lens flare (I'm looking at you JJ Abrams).

Well, I woke up to this and the guys shouting about going to the beach which was 20 meters below us. So, angry at the sun, I woke up, took my sleeping bag outside and laid it out. To air it of course. But, feeling a wee bit sleepy, I lied on top of the sleeping bag and relaxed for a while.

A couple of the guys went down to the beach and I just lay there. Then, in a sudden surge of energy, I rose up and walked down to the beach to talk to a few. When I got there, there was great news, jellyfishes! Yup, the non-stinging variety of jellyfishes. So, two of us who were in chest-deep water, were yelling at me and the other guy who were on the beach to join them and talk about jellyfishes. So, that was what we did, we joined them. The distribution of jellyfishes on the day was larger near the shore and lesser as we went farther away. Interestingly, the jellyfishes are also exquisitely water-y. There were also a large number of jellyfishes washing ashore. 
 
Our question for that day was whether washed ashore jellyfishes were dying? So, in an enterprise of good thought, we decided that we could save them and put them back in water.Picking them up was hard work. They are slimy and pretty much hard to handle. Then, this huge pan of a jellyfish catches our eye. It is circular, like most jellyfishes are. It is slimy, as well. We decide that since its splayed out on the rough sand, the best way to handle it would be to pick it up as you would, say, pick up a slice of pizza. Nice and easy with two-to-three fingers like a pincer. Turns out, it was not exactly the best way to pick up jellyfishes. Nope, if you ever come in contact with jellyfishes, don't ever try it.

The consequence of this method we tried was exactly like the result of picking up slices of pizza. We had ourselves the choicest slice of jellyfish in all its slimy, translucent glory. A bit put off by the sudden slicing of the jellyfish pie, we stood aside mourning with laughter. The argument was that it had died already but we didn't know and we still don't know. So, we did the next best thing that we could do. We went into the water. The problem with wading into jellyfish infested water is that you never know when you are going step on them. It is like that they exist and you have to move without questioning their existence; without snuffing them out. It is nothing but a hard job when there are hundreds and thousands of jellyfishes. The second problem is that they invade the space around you. They come close to you, creeping you out. Nevertheless, it was a fun experience. So, we went in deep with these jellyfishes getting scarcer and scarcer. As we were deep enough, the water cold enough, we took turns swimming. That was when the light bulb came on. As young, intelligent men who work with sustainability, we did the next best thing we were taught to do: Play with jellyfishes. We tried taking them out of the water and looking at them closer; feeling their translucent, gooey existence. That act of understanding the physiology of a jellyfish was followed by the act of learning more about them.

Some people say that the best way to learn about something is to test its limits. This applies to objects. The strength and skill provide some valuable insight into the character of that particular object. So, we threw the jellyfishes at each other. It was like slapping someone with a wet sponge only spongier and wetter. We did it a couple of times until we were a bit disgusted. Then we did it one last time. Which led to my, if not our, greatest learning experience: jellyfishes are weak. Last of the jellyfishes we threw at one of us, we took a look at it when it went back inside the water. What we saw was cruel. It was a twisted, jumbled, and disintegrated piece of former-jellyfish. No longer maintaining its shape and consistency. We had ruined a relic of a million years by playing with them. That made us nope out of the water real quick. We waded out confirmed by our savage minds that any more time in that water would probably be the causality of the extinction of one of the jellyfish species in Bornholm.

What followed these good adventures was a hearty breakfast and the decision to get our gear on our bikes and move to Strandmarken. The camping site for the second night. On the way to beautiful second camping site, we were to bike through the city of Aakirkeby where we would do our shopping for food for the evening. When we got on the bike and started biking to our next camping site, it was nearly noon and we were in real good spirits.

<hr>

##Part 3 - The Lazy day

Day two was a much more lazier day. We didn't have a lot of distance to cover to get to Strandmarken but on our agenda, we did have the necessity of grabbing food from the nearest supermarket. That supermarket was at Aakirkeby. If you take a look at the map, you'd find that Aakirkeby is slightly inland from the coast. Consequently, that meant that we had to go inland, i.e. uphill, before going downhill towards the coast and eventually at Strandmarken.

When we reached Aakirkeby, we were quite fresh and the time was around 14:00. Our supermarket budget was quite high and the list was pretty long and convoluted even though it was made up on our minds. Since it was a bunch of guys buying food without any set goals in mind, we were shouting and discussing it through the whole supermarket experience. We were at times viewed with disdain for our loud conversations. We were excited about it and we couldn't keep it to ourselves. Once we were done with a lot of food and shared the load amongst the group to carry it till the next stop; we went forward. The trip was fairly short and non-meandering. Once we reached the designated parking spot for our bikes, we got down and two of us went forward to check the place of our camping. It was set near a small inlet of water and surrounded by trees and bushes. It was a beautiful spot.

So, once we set up our spots, the beach was ours. Water, water, everywhere. It was amazing the water. After some time of splashing around, playing water Frisbee and some more water sports. There was also a dog that was feeling lonely. One of us then volunteered to throw sticks for it to relax. It was beautiful to just hangout, relax and enjoy the sun, the water and the sand. Once we were sufficiently bored with just the water, we decided, a group of three, to walk along the coast and final the corner. So, it began, the trek on the beach following the coast. Sand between our feet and the water to our right, we walked. Slowly, the list of the walking changed from the first corner to the next one and to the next one and to the next one. The interesting information that everyone forgets is that when you are going towards a corner, you end up in that corner and so, the next corner is completely anew. It is like a meta-corner of sorts. This continued for a while before we chanced upon a few sand dunes. That sparked an idea.

A tall dune is perfect to roll down from. The first thing we did was to lie down and roll down. The feeling was amazing. Rolling down on the side was just spectacular. We did that about ten times and then we switched the side around to do front rolls. After ten of those, we were quite happy about the time we spent rolling around. The only problem: Sand. Sand is coarse and gets everywhere. I hate it after a while of running around in it. But, hey, it is a necessary evil. We finished the rolling and washed up in the pristine water for half an hour before going onward across a couple more corners where we chanced upon a marathon: ETAPE marathon. More on that later.

After spending a few more minutes there, we walked back to our camp talking shit and just plain walking. Once we were back at the campsite, it was time for doing the most important thing: cooking and eating. It was delicious, the food we had and the time we spent making it. Once that was all done, the food eaten heartily and our stomachs filled, we retired in front of the huge bonfire. The warmth it spewed out was divine and we sat there talking and making fun. When we were done, it was night, the stars were out and we nestled into the sleeping bags like all exhausted men and fell asleep.

<hr>

##Part 4 - Leeches, we love thee!

The day two of the trip. As usual, when you are on a trip to enjoy the summer, the beach, the sun and the water; you don't do anything. In fact, you do nothing. Absolutely nothing. That is what we did. The second day was pretty much the same but we were going inland towards Almindingen. The funny thing about Almindingen is that it is pretty much uphill from the coast. As for food, it was decided that we would gather our resources at Aakirkeby again as that worked flawlessly the last time we did it. So, late afternoon, after lazing around the beautiful seaside place of Strandmarken, we left towards Aakirkeby. The first part of the trip was quite hard thanks to the sun shining. It can be equated to listening to a blithering idiot, which can be painful all the time.

When you are exposed to the sun for large amounts of time, you get sick of it. This was when it started to get sick for me since I felt that the sun was getting too much. At Aakirkeby, we bought the produce that would satisfy our ever increasing appetites over the evening and the next day. Ecstatic about getting new food stocks, we started biking up towards the dark forests of Almindingen. It took us not long to reach the new place and my oh my was it beautiful. The camping site was pretty large in comparison to the ones we had already been to and we had a fresh water lake nearby. A freshwater lake!! That is some serious fun since we were feeling a bit icky, sticky from the seaside refuge we had taken over the last two nights and the multiple sea baths.

It was a forest, dark and near to a road but the trees gave us good cover and shade from the brutal sun. One overarching theme you'll begin to notice is that the sun becomes a source of brutality for me. It is quite funny coming from me since I lived almost all of my lifetime, a good chunk of it, in a brutally sunny place which is quite famous for being dry and sunny. Unfortunately, the one year I have spent in Denmark seems to have changed me to a cold loving mammal. Interesting huh? Couple of us switched to swimming trunks and jumped into the dark and rotting-wood filled water of the lake. That comes to the second part of my acceptance: I can't swim. Truly. I am like a stone in water. I float like a rock. I swim like a rock. That said, I had till now never been required to swim anywhere but I plan on getting lessons soon. Before I diverge from the topic at hand, I went into the water. Stood near to the edge and just dipped down a couple of times and that was when I found a slimy protrusion from my stomach. To be exact: it was right in my belly button. That thing was a leech.

I have never had a leech penetrate my skin before and I was freaking out in the water albeit only in my mind and not like a little girl. That saves me some points I guess. I somehow manage to pull it out of my belly button and get back on the surface. Happy that the leeches are not going to kill me today. Once out, my body felt extremely good. So good that I was becoming less tired. Once I finished all of that out, the other guys came out and we decided to relax and eat peanuts for the rest of the afternoon until dinner. Our dinner was epic and the ball we had with us to play was changed to a football game for all of us that was insanely good. There was enough space to play football like a pro and that was what we did. When it was all said and done, we had to find some wood in the dark forest and that was quite fun since we had overactive imaginations anyway. The stories started from chainsaw wielding weirdos to some dark manifestation that would hunt us and kill us: the impossible kind of nightmares. That was how stupid we were in our minds. All in all, it was an amazing day, night and dinner with a huge fire and some beautiful banter among ourselves.

It was a quick Wednesday in truth and nothing more than a simple day. We lazed around and had our first trysts with the beautiful leeches of the fresh-water lake but we were happy with everything. Good thing too! It was quite late when we slept but we had a few decisions made for the next day. 4 of us in our 8 member group would be returning to their beautiful homes back in Copenhagen while the rest of us, including me, would stay back and enjoy one more day in Bornholm. Interesting heh? That was what we did the next day and that would be another simple story.

<hr>

##Part 5 - Onwards! The Hills!

The Thursday was special with varying degrees of reasoning. The primary reason was that it was a trip uphill to hammerhavn. We'd heard stories about the place but remembered nothing. Thursday morning and we decided that we need to get packing and move out, it was noon already. By plan, 4 of the 8 were to depart and go back to Rønne and the rest of us would go on ahead and make our final stop at Hammerhavn before departing home on Friday. It was intense and indeed complicated by the lack of tickets by ferry from Rønne to Copenhagen. So, on Thursday, not caring about tickets from Rønne, we departed from Almindingen.

Our trip northwards after bidding adieu to the 4 musketeers who were leaving us was a delight. It took us through a couple of cities after visiting the famed round churches of Bornholm. The round church we visited was at Østerlars. A short detour of sorts from our trip northwards. We went there and spent some silent time around where I went around looking at the headstones in the cemetery. My aim was to find some of the oldest ones there. Some were from the pre-war era and pretty old. It was a quite a feeling to be standing amongst the buildings and the garden of a really really old church. After an hour at most, we proceeded forward with our trip. We went through to Gudhjem, Tejn Havn and finally to Allinge. Allinge was decided as our final supermarket stop before the eventual stop at Rønne on Friday. When we stopped at Allinge, we bought our usual food stuffs and some drinks as well.

We were quite hungry on our way since we had crossed quite a large distance in the sun aided partially by the roadside strawberries which we got for 5 DKK somewhere in the middle of the trip. We decided to eat our food at the rock-filled coast of Allinge amongst seagulls and everything. Our small snack obviously consisted of simple bread, cheese and some sauce. Once we were done with it, we decided that we should get going forward. The view was remarkable as the ever-changing terrain and its relative distance to the coast. Tiring and quite frustrated by the inclined terrain, we biked further and further before reaching hammerhavn at last. Now, it changed into an awesome experience.

The exact feeling was of elation but mixed with trepidation since at Hammer havn, we were quite high up in the air because of the cliff like terrain and we had to walk downwards to the coast and our eventual camping site. Unfortunately, by mistake and pure guesswork, we took the route downwards through the brush and thicket peppered with with gradients so steep that our overladen steel donkeys were not capable of handling. The exact feeling was like walking down the cliff in a South-American country with drugs and the line of 4 guys with bikes looked exactly like smugglers. The sad part was the place were we came back to was the road which we had passed before deciding on taking the brush-trail. We rejoined the road and parked our steel donkeys since our camp site was over on the other side of the lagoon like bay. Hammerhavn looked like it was built for a beautiful evening with a loved on by your side.

We set up our usual camp and readied everything, went for a swim (they did) while I was busy walking around taking a look at the place. And then we did something to ruin the whole trip for the people who were actually sharing the place with us in their tents. And that is a story for the next post.

<hr>

##Part 6 - Spires of Malmo

I would like this to be called Stillwater Bay or Hammerhavn. It was amazing. Hammerhavn is one of those places which is amazing when you are with your kæreste or your dearest (translated to English from Danish). And if you are lucky, you have perfectly still water with no waves and a small boat moored off the coast in front of the sun looking so beautiful and picturesque that you'll squeal. We had all of that and we managed to make it worse.

Unfortunately for the couples that spent the evening there, the whole thing was ruined because of 4 guys. Us. It started when we arrived with hustle and bustle, loud, brashy and totally unwanted in the area. The next thing we did was jump around and talk loudly. The good thing we did was eat an amazing dinner courtesy of a portable grill that served us well on the rock wall around the bay looking at the beautiful sunset and the rocks strewn out and about the water of the sea.

I had the chance to split from the group and go to hill nearest to the havn and get some aerial pictures of the place in my camera. It was amazing. But the highest note of our disobedience to social conduct and overall awesomeness was yet to be showcased to the world in a grand manner. We finished our dinner quite early and we were standing waiting for the sun to set. It was a serene evening. Absolutely no wind and the water was still. It was as still as you see in pictures of beautiful landscapes. Very still. A boat was moored off from the havn and the sun was setting beside it. It was absolutely silent with the chirping of insects adding to the atmosphere and overall nothing was human except us and distractive. We stood there as normal men, absolutely enamoured with the environment and its gorgeousness. As the sun neared the horizon, we awaited with bated breath for that single amazing moment. As the final edge of the orange glowing sun neared the periphery of the horizon, the silence intensified. And at that perfect moment, the moment when the sun disappeared behind that strict delineation of horizon thanks to a perfectly settled sea, one of us, who hereforth, shall never be named, let out an amazing fart.

And this fart, in essence, as assessed by the chart explaining the quality of farts with respect to sound, was perfect. In this silent, absolutely stunning romantic scenario, the fart possessed the quality of a skunk bomb thrown to the sound of an atomic bomb. It was piercing, shrill and echoed through the havn reducing the beautiful state of sunset into a farce that was followed by the absolutely stomach-ache inducing laughter that we were subjected to. In truth, it was the most amazing part of the trip but we did feel sorry for the couples that shared the beachfront with us that evening.

Once the fart was completed, it was phase two to set up the fire. I am pretty sure that one of us would love to be an arsonist. Over the trip, we came to an understanding that he was a true fire-enthusiast. The type that would play forever with fire if ever given one that would never burn out. He would go around setting everything to fire just because he could do it. And he did it that evening with fervent ardour. The fire was roaring, we sat beside it in the sand, talking stuff and just chilling. And when it was time to finish the fire, the big guns came out. This was probably the second thing that we would've gave us a bad standing among the people staying there with us, we threw fuel into the fire. Especially good ol' fire fuel basically lighter fluid that makes it go up in flames like the baddies in any hollywood action movies; especially cars. But it was a moment of fun we shared with one of the couples who were quite happy that there was a fire and that the fire also entertained them.

It was quite late and we were tired when we were done. The whole of next day was quite simple for us since all that was required was to pack up and get us back to Rønne over the course of the day. The good news for us was that the road was supposed to be downhill. When we went to sleep, all the four of us, in a tent, we were tired and the rest that we were looking for came quickly along with the numerous farts that filled the tent with a pleasantly disgusting smell (we were accustomed to this by the last day).

Our plan for the entire last day in the beautiful island of Bornholm was super simple. Bike to Rønne as early as possible and get ourselves onto the ferry either to Køge or to Ystad and make it home. So, when the day broke, we were packing and ready to go by 11 and on the road by 12. It was a battle for the first part of the travel thanks to hills but once we were on a roll, it was a pleasant experience. We reached Rønne around noon and the first thing was to get our return tickets. When we booked them and got them in our hands we were elated. It was due to the fact that it was the final 4 tickets from Rønne to Køge while the other ferry was full. Elated and the anxiety satiated, we got ourselves to the havn where two of us moved to the strand for more sun and water while my friend and me, tired of the sun, decided to take a nap under a tree. About 3 hours later, rejuvenated and still tired, we got onto the final ferry ride. It was glorious.

Sitting in the ferry, tired, looking haggard, homeless amongst the others, it was a crazy experience. Then, we did the next thing we could do. After days of haphazardly cooked and eating un-seasoned meals thanks to our resident chefs, we decided that we should be splurging on something amazing. Pommes Frites!! In other words, French Fries. They had this bowl of french fries for 49 DKK which was relatively inexpensive for a ferry and we had to stay in the ferry for five hours. This gave me the first idea, I buy one for all and if its good, each one of us buys one for the other remaining 4 hours. Man, it was the most wonderful decision ever. The crisp fries with mayonnaise in a ferry when you are tired was just a sumptuous experience. When we reached the city of Køge, it was well past 22 in the evening and we were too tired to bike the 40 kilometers from Køge to our homes. So, we took the S-tog/train from Køge station and went home.

Owing to the day being friday, we sat there beside our bikes, tired, partially dirty and still calm looking at the beautiful women dressing up and going to the city for a night of partying. We smiled to each other, knowing that we would never survive anything called a party for the weekend. It was around 23.30 when I finally got home with my friend in tow. It was a feeling of elation and satisfaction in doing something so adventurous and amazing that most people would not do it. More than that, it was the complete disconnect from real life I had (at the least most of us had complete internet disconnect) and how serene and undisturbed my thoughts were from the information overload we are facing today. I opened the door to my room and gazed at my laptop, the shower and the bed with adoring acknowledgement. It was a reunion of intense emotional response as I took my cold shower, smothered myself in good, clean clothes and snuggled under the duvet. I fell asleep within five minutes knowing I had had a great adventure and plain awesomeness with my good friends. It is a cherished memory.

<hr>

##Epilogue

If the first trip was quite a great feeling, this was of the same magnitude. Going on a trip with a bike and spending time with friends in an island was a great experience. The most important thing for me was the clarity I had after relaxing for a week on the island, carefree and careless. And that was also when I began to appreciate the sun and the effect it has on the body. Overall, I have become a huge fan of travelling with the bike. The trip also started the decline in my bike thanks to the abuse it sustained. Once I've fixed it, there might be more in store. Travelling and especially biking to great places is definitely a great feeling. 
